README.md, before:

# Actions on Google: Smart Home sample using Node.js

This sample contains a fully functioning example of a Smart Home provider
cloud service designed to work with Actions on Google. This can be used with a
Actions Console project to create an Action interface to your IoT devices.
This sample includes everything you need to get started, including a mocked
user authentication service with sample users and a user web portal to
demonstrate the user experience when controlling their lights with your action.

An example of a Smart Home IoT cloud engine is stored in
`smart-home-provider`. This consists of both the main
`smart-home-provider-cloud.js` main web service, as well as the web portal used
to interact with virtual devices in `frontend/`. `smart-home-provider-cloud.js`
is the entry point to the Node.js Express app that runs the IoT cloud service,
and handles authentication, and ultimately handles requests from the Google
Assistant.

The primary AoG intent handlers are stored in
`smart-home-provider/smart-home-app.js`. Here, you can find listeners for POST
requests similar to the one your app will receive from the Google Assistant
when SYNCing, QUERYing, or EXECuting smart home device control with your cloud.
The path for requests to this app is '/smarthome'.

This sample also includes a mock-assistant-platform module that you can use to
locally test your Smart Home app with mocked requests for the SYNC, QUERY, and
EXEC intents that you will receive from the Google Assistant. See below for
instructions on how to use. It is hard coded to use the account under username
'rick' given in `smart-home-provider/datastore.js`. However you swap the
appropriate Bearer token in the makeReq method of the mock-assistant-platform.

## Setup Instructions

See the developer guide and release notes at [https://developers.google.com/actions/](https://developers.google.com/actions/) for more details.

### Steps for testing with Google Assistant

1. Navigate to the [Actions Console](https://console.actions.google.com) and
click Add/Import Project.
1. Create a new project or import an existing Google Cloud project.
1. Navigate to the
[Google Cloud Console API Manager](https://console.developers.google.com/apis)
for your project.
1. Enable the [Google HomeGraph API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/homegraph.googleapis.com/overview). This will be used to request a new sync and to report the state back to the HomeGraph.
1. Click Credentials
1. Click 'Create credentials'
1. Click 'API key'
1. Copy the API key shown and insert it in
`smart-home-provider/cloud/config-provider.js`
   Enable Request-Sync API using [these
   instructions](https://developers.google.com/actions/smarthome/create-app#request-sync).
1. Set up the web portal

        cd smart-home-provider/frontend
        npm install -g bower
        bower install
        cd ..

1. Run smart-home-provider-cloud.js, either locally or hosted
    * If running locally

          npm install
          npm start

    * If running in a hosted env,

          node cloud/smart-home-provider-cloud.js smart-home="https://your_domain.com"

1. In the resulting output, note the config data. In particular the client ID and client Secret.
1. In a browser, open the ngrok URL shown.
1. Log in with one of the sample user accounts, for instance:

       user: rick
       password: oldman

1. This is a web portal to your Smart Home devices. Configure the smart lights
shown as you please. Click the cloud icon shown above at least one of them to
enable it for cloud control.
1. Return to the Actions Console project. Click 'Use Actions SDK'.
1. Update the Action Package (action.json) with the URL where your project is hosted (don't forget to include /smarthome).
1. Use the [gActions CLI](https://developers.google.com/actions/tools/gactions-cli)
to run the command given with the 'action.json' file as your Action Package.
1. Click Okay.
1. Click ADD under App information.
1. Give your App some information like an invocation name, some description, and
 some policy and contact info.
1. Click Save.
1. Click Add under Account Linking.
1. Select 'Authorization Code' for Grant Type.
1. Under Client Information, enter the client ID and secret from earlier.
1. The Authorization URL is the hosted URL of your app with '/oauth' as the
path, e.g. https://xyz123.ngrok.io/oauth
1. The Token URL is the hosted URL of your app with '/token' as the path,
e.g. https://xyz123.ngrok.io/token
1. Enter any remaining necessary information you might need for
authentication your app. Then Save.
1. On a device with the Google Assistant logged into the same account used
to create the project in the Actions Console, enter your Assistant settings.
1. Click Home Control.
1. Click the '+' sign to add a device.
1. Find your app in the list of providers.
1. Log in to your service.
1. Start using the Google Assistant or Simulator in the Actions Console to control your devices. Try saying 'turn my lights on'.

:information_source: Assistant will only provide you control over items that are registered, so if you visit your front end https://xyz123.ngrok.io and click the cloud icon to enable a device you will need to unlink and then re-link your account to see the new or removed devices.


### Steps for testing with mock-assistant-platform

1. Set up the web portal

       cd smart-home-provider/frontend
       npm install -g bower
       bower install
       cd ..

1. Run smart-home-provider-cloud.js, either locally or hosted

       npm install

    * If running locally:

          node smart-home-provider-cloud.js isLocal

    * If running in a hosted environment

          node smart-home-provider-cloud.js smart-home="https://your_domain.com"

1. In the resulting output, note the config data. In particular the client ID and client Secret.
1. In a browser, open the ngrok URL shown.
1. Log in with one of the sample user accounts, for instance

       user: rick
       password: oldman

1. This is a web portal to your Smart Home devices. Configure the smart lights
shown as you please. Click the cloud icon shown above at least one of them to
enable it for cloud control.
1. Use the mock-assistant platform to send requests to your Smart Home app.

       cd mock-assistant-platform
       node platform help
       node platform url="https://<NGROK_DOMAIN>.ngrok.io/smarthome" sync
       node platform url="https://<NGROK_DOMAIN>.ngrok.io/smarthome" query
       node platform url="https://<NGROK_DOMAIN>.ngrok.io/smarthome" ex

### Examples of SYNC, QUERY, and EXEC requests

Your app will need to handle these 3 basic requests from the Google Assistant.

#### Sync

    POST /smarthome HTTP/1.1
    Host: <something>.ngrok.io
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Bearer psokmCxKjfhk7qHLeYd1
    Cache-Control: no-cache

    Body:
    {
        "requestId": "ff36a3cc-ec34-11e6-b1a0-64510650abcf",
        "inputs": [{
            "intent": "action.devices.SYNC"
        }]
     }

#### Query

    POST /smarthome HTTP/1.1
    Host: <something>.ngrok.io
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Bearer psokmCxKjfhk7qHLeYd1
    Cache-Control: no-cache

    Body:
    {
        "requestId": "ff36a3cc-ec34-11e6-b1a0-64510650abcf",
        "inputs": [{
            "intent": "action.devices.QUERY",
            "payload": {
                "devices": [{
                    "id": "1",
                    "customData": {
                        "smartHomeProviderId": "FkldJVJCmDNSaoLkoq0txiz8Byf2Hr"
                    }
                },{
                    "id": "2"
                },{
                    "id": "3"
                },{
                    "id": "4"
                }]
            }
        }]
    }

#### Execute

    POST /smarthome HTTP/1.1
    Host: <something>.ngrok.io
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Bearer psokmCxKjfhk7qHLeYd1
    Cache-Control: no-cache

    Body:
    {
        "requestId": "ff36a3cc-ec34-11e6-b1a0-64510650abcf",
        "inputs": [{
            "intent": "action.devices.EXECUTE",
            "payload": {
                "commands": [{
                    "devices": [{
                        "id": "1",
                        "customData": {
                            "smartHomeProviderId": "FkldJVJCmDNSaoLkoq0txiz8Byf2Hr"
                        }
                    },{
                        "id": "3"
                    }],
                    "execution": [{
                        "command": "action.devices.commands.Brightness",
                        "params": {
                            "brightness": 60
                        }
                    },{
                        "command": "action.devices.commands.ChangeColor",
                        "params": {
                            "color": {
                                "name": "red",
                                "spectrumRGB": 65280
                            }
                        }
                    },{
                        "command": "action.devices.commands.OnOff",
                        "params": {
                            "on": true
                        }
                    }]
                }]
            }
        }]
    }

## References and How to report bugs
* Actions on Google documentation: [https://developers.google.com/actions/](https://developers.google.com/actions/).
* If you find any issues, please open a bug here on GitHub.
* Questions are answered on [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/actions-on-google).

## How to make contributions?
Please read and follow the steps in the CONTRIBUTING.md.

## License
See LICENSE.md.

## Terms
Your use of this sample is subject to, and by using or downloading the sample files you agree to comply with, the [Google APIs Terms of Service](https://developers.google.com/terms/).

## Google+
Actions on Google Developers Community on Google+ [https://g.co/actionsdev](https://g.co/actionsdev).

Commit message:

Adds clarification to the README
Separates setup into three categories
Adds note to click TEST DRAFT

Bug: 64446530
Change-Id: Ifaae35519c8aa5114cbd2d87e7c36814ff893e24

README.md, after:

# Actions on Google: Smart Home sample using Node.js

This sample contains a fully functioning example of a Smart Home provider
cloud service designed to work with Actions on Google. This can be used with a
Actions Console project to create an Action interface to your IoT devices.
This sample includes everything you need to get started, including a mocked
user authentication service with sample users and a user web portal to
demonstrate the user experience when controlling their lights with your action.

An example of a Smart Home IoT cloud engine is stored in
`smart-home-provider`. This consists of both the main
`smart-home-provider-cloud.js` main web service, as well as the web portal used
to interact with virtual devices in `frontend/`. `smart-home-provider-cloud.js`
is the entry point to the Node.js Express app that runs the IoT cloud service,
and handles authentication, and ultimately handles requests from the Google
Assistant.

The primary AoG intent handlers are stored in
`smart-home-provider/smart-home-app.js`. Here, you can find listeners for POST
requests similar to the one your app will receive from the Google Assistant
when SYNCing, QUERYing, or EXECuting smart home device control with your cloud.
The path for requests to this app is '/smarthome'.

This sample also includes a mock-assistant-platform module that you can use to
locally test your Smart Home app with mocked requests for the SYNC, QUERY, and
EXEC intents that you will receive from the Google Assistant. See below for
instructions on how to use. It is hard coded to use the account under username
'rick' given in `smart-home-provider/datastore.js`. However you swap the
appropriate Bearer token in the makeReq method of the mock-assistant-platform.

## Setup Instructions

See the developer guide and release notes at [https://developers.google.com/actions/](https://developers.google.com/actions/) for more details.

### Steps for testing with Google Assistant

#### Create and setup project

1. Navigate to the [Actions Console](https://console.actions.google.com) and
click Add/Import Project.
1. Create a new project or import an existing Google Cloud project.
1. Navigate to the
[Google Cloud Console API Manager](https://console.developers.google.com/apis)
for your project.
1. Enable the [Google HomeGraph API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/homegraph.googleapis.com/overview). This will be used to request a new sync and to report the state back to the HomeGraph.
1. Click Credentials
1. Click 'Create credentials'
1. Click 'API key'
1. Copy the API key shown and insert it in
`smart-home-provider/cloud/config-provider.js`
   Enable Request-Sync API using [these
   instructions](https://developers.google.com/actions/smarthome/create-app#request-sync).
1. Set up the web portal

        cd smart-home-provider/frontend
        npm install -g bower
        bower install
        cd ..

1. Run smart-home-provider-cloud.js, either locally or hosted
    * If running locally

          npm install
          npm start

    * If running in a hosted env,

          node cloud/smart-home-provider-cloud.js smart-home="https://your_domain.com"

1. In the resulting output, note the config data. In particular the client ID and client Secret.
1. In a browser, open the ngrok URL shown.
1. Log in with one of the sample user accounts, for instance:

       user: rick
       password: oldman

1. This is a web portal to your Smart Home devices. Configure the smart lights
shown as you please. Click the cloud icon shown above at least one of them to
enable it for cloud control.

#### Use Actions on Google console

1. Return to the Actions Console project. Click 'Use Actions SDK'.
1. Update the Action Package (action.json) with the URL where your project is hosted (don't forget to include /smarthome).
1. Use the [gActions CLI](https://developers.google.com/actions/tools/gactions-cli)
to run the command given with the 'action.json' file as your Action Package.
1. Click Okay.
1. Click ADD under App information.
1. Give your App some information like an invocation name, some description, and
 some policy and contact info.
1. Click Save.
1. Click Add under Account Linking.
1. Select 'Authorization Code' for Grant Type.
1. Under Client Information, enter the client ID and secret from earlier.
1. The Authorization URL is the hosted URL of your app with '/oauth' as the
path, e.g. https://xyz123.ngrok.io/oauth
1. The Token URL is the hosted URL of your app with '/token' as the path,
e.g. https://xyz123.ngrok.io/token
1. Enter any remaining necessary information you might need for
authentication your app. Then Save.
1. Press the **TEST DRAFT** button to begin testing this app.

#### Start testing on device

1. On a device with the Google Assistant logged into the same account used
to create the project in the Actions Console, enter your Assistant settings.
1. Click Home Control.
1. Click the '+' sign to add a device.
1. Find your app in the list of providers.
1. Log in to your service.
1. Start using the Google Assistant or Simulator in the Actions Console to control your devices. Try saying 'turn my lights on'.

:information_source: Assistant will only provide you control over items that are registered, so if you visit your front end https://xyz123.ngrok.io and click the cloud icon to enable a device you will need to unlink and then re-link your account to see the new or removed devices.


### Steps for testing with mock-assistant-platform

1. Set up the web portal

       cd smart-home-provider/frontend
       npm install -g bower
       bower install
       cd ..

1. Run smart-home-provider-cloud.js, either locally or hosted

       npm install

    * If running locally:

          node smart-home-provider-cloud.js isLocal

    * If running in a hosted environment

          node smart-home-provider-cloud.js smart-home="https://your_domain.com"

1. In the resulting output, note the config data. In particular the client ID and client Secret.
1. In a browser, open the ngrok URL shown.
1. Log in with one of the sample user accounts, for instance

       user: rick
       password: oldman

1. This is a web portal to your Smart Home devices. Configure the smart lights
shown as you please. Click the cloud icon shown above at least one of them to
enable it for cloud control.
1. Use the mock-assistant platform to send requests to your Smart Home app.

       cd mock-assistant-platform
       node platform help
       node platform url="https://<NGROK_DOMAIN>.ngrok.io/smarthome" sync
       node platform url="https://<NGROK_DOMAIN>.ngrok.io/smarthome" query
       node platform url="https://<NGROK_DOMAIN>.ngrok.io/smarthome" ex

### Examples of SYNC, QUERY, and EXEC requests

Your app will need to handle these 3 basic requests from the Google Assistant.

#### Sync

    POST /smarthome HTTP/1.1
    Host: <something>.ngrok.io
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Bearer psokmCxKjfhk7qHLeYd1
    Cache-Control: no-cache

    Body:
    {
        "requestId": "ff36a3cc-ec34-11e6-b1a0-64510650abcf",
        "inputs": [{
            "intent": "action.devices.SYNC"
        }]
     }

#### Query

    POST /smarthome HTTP/1.1
    Host: <something>.ngrok.io
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Bearer psokmCxKjfhk7qHLeYd1
    Cache-Control: no-cache

    Body:
    {
        "requestId": "ff36a3cc-ec34-11e6-b1a0-64510650abcf",
        "inputs": [{
            "intent": "action.devices.QUERY",
            "payload": {
                "devices": [{
                    "id": "1",
                    "customData": {
                        "smartHomeProviderId": "FkldJVJCmDNSaoLkoq0txiz8Byf2Hr"
                    }
                },{
                    "id": "2"
                },{
                    "id": "3"
                },{
                    "id": "4"
                }]
            }
        }]
    }

#### Execute

    POST /smarthome HTTP/1.1
    Host: <something>.ngrok.io
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Bearer psokmCxKjfhk7qHLeYd1
    Cache-Control: no-cache

    Body:
    {
        "requestId": "ff36a3cc-ec34-11e6-b1a0-64510650abcf",
        "inputs": [{
            "intent": "action.devices.EXECUTE",
            "payload": {
                "commands": [{
                    "devices": [{
                        "id": "1",
                        "customData": {
                            "smartHomeProviderId": "FkldJVJCmDNSaoLkoq0txiz8Byf2Hr"
                        }
                    },{
                        "id": "3"
                    }],
                    "execution": [{
                        "command": "action.devices.commands.Brightness",
                        "params": {
                            "brightness": 60
                        }
                    },{
                        "command": "action.devices.commands.ChangeColor",
                        "params": {
                            "color": {
                                "name": "red",
                                "spectrumRGB": 65280
                            }
                        }
                    },{
                        "command": "action.devices.commands.OnOff",
                        "params": {
                            "on": true
                        }
                    }]
                }]
            }
        }]
    }

## References and How to report bugs
* Actions on Google documentation: [https://developers.google.com/actions/](https://developers.google.com/actions/).
* If you find any issues, please open a bug here on GitHub.
* Questions are answered on [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/actions-on-google).

## How to make contributions?
Please read and follow the steps in the CONTRIBUTING.md.

## License
See LICENSE.md.

## Terms
Your use of this sample is subject to, and by using or downloading the sample files you agree to comply with, the [Google APIs Terms of Service](https://developers.google.com/terms/).

## Google+
Actions on Google Developers Community on Google+ [https://g.co/actionsdev](https://g.co/actionsdev).
